
CUBES

Human senses are not equally potent or sensetive by any means. This results in an unintentional shift in the ways how we percieve and interpret the world around us. We rely mostly on sight as the input signals are sharper and easier to differentiate in comparisson to our other senses. In other words, is seeing faster ? Or how fast are our senses ? ‘Cubes’ is an installation in which 5 visually almost identical concrete cubes are put inside a room while one select cube emits a faint noise and another emits a slight heat. Participants are asked to sort the odd ones out. As the visual difference is minimalised the participants have to give more detail to their sight while their hearing and skin are also being stimulated, forcing an unwilling shift in the focus given to each sense. As  in this case processing the visual input is much harder, the participants will tend to state the difference between the cubes as noise and heat almost ignoring the different textures of the cubes as this information becomes insignificant because of the weaker input.  

>Fire

There are multiple ways to paint a picture. One can imagine a scene and paint it accordingly or can take other ways of creating a composition like making a collage or other sorts. In "Fire" I made a multimedia collage where I took imagery, which I would use in a collage that tells the story of a house fire. Starting from a picture of a burnt house while urban exploring I took the digital file and "pasted" birds, crackling wood, fire, screams of people, a refenrence to musicians work, my expression of how I felt there and such imagery resulting in a data scrambled audio file and a gif which are then presented together as a video.

>fibonacci

Mathematics is not just a set of rules or adding/subtracting values from each other. It's a language. A way of expressing thoughts or even a composition. Like fractals Concepts in mathematics allow us to create abstract platforms which we then think in conjunction with our material world. Fibonacci numbers is also one of these concepts which represent a system in the abstract world which can be represented in the material world. By creating a 3D representation of the spinal row of the Fibonacci numbers I was able to build a sculpture which is only truely percieved when it is observed with these ideas in mind.

piezzo (dokunmayı duyduğun eldiven)
When we go in a certain environment or spend some time in one, we start to exprience it. We all like certain rooms more than others or even certain desks. This is directly related to our exploration. I always felt the need to expend this exploration. I was able to exprience a place visually both wideshot and also in detail if I looked closer enough. That was never the case by hearing. I was able to hear the ambient noise but not the sound of the details. My gloves made from 2 pairs of piezzo disks allowed me to hear the sounds of the details. Because I already had the ability to see details and make it into a composition I felt the need to do the same with sound just because I could with my newly found abiliy. 






>Lightbox
Human eye works in a crazy complicated way with our brain. As cognitive science suggests we first percieve movement, then colour and then the shape of the moving objects.
Another crazy phenomena is the way colors work. Colored surfaces disappear on white surfaces under same colored light and so on. Utilizing color means wielding light which is essentially what creating an illusion is all about. The Lightbox provides a one time exprience with a certain start and end. The changing colors create the illusion that the box and the animals move which only lasts until you realise that the motion is non existent. After that, Lightbox has ended for you as you will never truly feel the illusion like the first time. 


>kendi sesini duymak
What annoys me most in this life are people who never hear what they say and just ramble and shout for hours.
What annoys me the second most is hearing my own voice through a microphone. 
Therefore I created ... with the intention of crating an interactive artpiece (or a toy) that lets people have a corversation, which allows them to hearthemselves speak and therefore keep the conversation going under this influence. Once a person speaks, they immediatly see how hard it is to not get distract by your own sayings. 

>harp
We are not free in the way we understand the world. What we percieve never makes its way  to our brains unaltered, which by the way, is quite normal. Why does sense of pleasure indicate guilt or more simply, why do some chords sound happy? Major chords tend to sound happy because we are so used to hear them in such compositions. In church music say, harps were used to create a glissning and blooming overtone in compositions. Because of this, harps were also seen in heavenly frescos and imagery. My Harp however sounds rather evil. The reason behind is that i utilized tritones which were banned by the church in the early ages because they ‘sounded satanic’. This proves that our perception is never free of our collective memory as this pieces would sound unsettling -if not evil-  to almost everyone


>Küvet
i
The Baka Tribes of Africa have a rather unconventional instrument. Water. Going into water and playing water in groups while chanting, they make music. And they are quite serious about it too. It seems to me that it is time to retrospect and realise that we are turning modern music into serious, overpolished and too hygenical sounds. XXX is a recording of a bathtub layered with bass guitar played by me as well. 





>Journey. 
In visual compositions, machines tend to represent dynamic and -from time to time- agressive imagery. This is our preconcieved notion since the uprising of technology. We are scared that one day our machines might overthrow us. We are even sometimes scared. 
Tranquil is an art piece that suggests the opposite. While the elevator mechanism constantly repeats the same pattern over and over, there is no way of knowing what the person inside that elevator would do once they get off. Go home and sleep ? Watch tv ? Kill someone ? 
All while the cogs turn on and on.

